Hello and welcome.
Let's talk about class diagrams.
As I mentioned this is gonna be the main diagram we use to show the design of some of the design patterns
in UML so we know a class represents set of objects having similar responsibilities.
It's really a blueprint the class diagram is used to define the detailed design of this system.
You'll see all of the objects in the system represented as classes.
They describe the attributes.
Remember variables and the operations of a class methods
they also show a collection of classes interfaces associates collaboration and constraints.
They show all the relationships.
So when you look at this diagram you're gonna see a bunch of different classes and then you're going
to be able to understand the relationships between those classes whether or not there is a has a relationship
whether or not there's and is a relationship right.
This is known as a structural diagram because it shows the entire system and the structure of the system
class diagrams are widely used in the modeling of object oriented systems because they are the only
small diagrams which can be mapped directly with object oriented languages.
Class doesn't really exist in other types of languages.
They also can generate executable code of an application although again we're not getting into that.
It depends on the tool use but there are some tools out there that can just take a diagram and generate
classes from it.
Because again the class contains a ton of detail shows the relationship between classes.
So if there's inheritance relationship or if you're implementing an interface it also shows you remember
variables and your methods.
So you can see how you can essentially write a tool that takes the diagrams information and generates
actual Java code.
The purpose of class diagrams to model the static view of an application it doesn't show things dynamically.
It just shows really class definitions and relationships.
It's a graphical representation it describes the vocabulary of the system.
Again a quick glance you could look at this diagram and understand in a high level what objects are
involved and how they relate to one another collection of class diagrams represent the whole system.
The most popular UML diagram is the class diagram because it conveys so much information and it's easy
to understand they describe the responsibilities of the system the functionalities performed by the
system because you see the behavior with the methods.
Again you quickly look and say oh this is what this object does.
This is what this other object does.
They provide a base for component and deployment diagrams.
We're not going to discuss those that is a useful information and they provide forward and reverse code
engineering.
As I mentioned drawing a class diagram the name of the class diagram should be meaningful to describe
the aspect of the system and we'll get to some examples.
Each element in the relationship Pete should be identified in advance.
You can't just start writing class diagram unless you have an understanding of what objects are in the
system what the attributes and methods are of those objects and how the objects relate.
So the responsibility of each class should be clearly identified with those attributes and methods and
then for each class a minimum number of properties should be specified as necessary as unnecessary properties
will make the diagram complicated.
You don't want to put in member variables that you don't use or don't need.
You can also use a notes little notes icon whenever you need to describe some aspect of the diagram.
That's maybe not explainable and again we'll provide an example that the whole purpose of the class
diagram is to convey information about the design of the objects to a user.
So if it's confusing you can provide the notes and the ultimate goal is to have the diagram be understandable
by a fellow developer before making the final version the diagrams should be drawn on plain paper and
reworked as many times as possible to make correct.
So you're probably going to go back and refactor you're probably going to get peer reviews from your
class diagram get information from others say hey what do you think about this design.
Does it look good.
They may scratch off some attributes some other things on the class diagram and say hey this is unnecessary
and you will go ahead and refactor have kind of that iterative development class relationships with
one class as a kind of another class.
This is referred to as an is a relationship.
We know that that's inheritance that can be reflected in the diagram when there are associations between
two classes whether it's a has a relationship or aggregation a composition.
If it's a uses and other class which is who uses a relationship really it's similar aggregation except
that maybe you're passing a method or a parameter to a method and you're using an object that way as
opposed to having an action as an actual member variable.
That's a use as a relationship.
Also from one class creates another class that can be reflected as an association between two classes
in the diagram.
There are also variations on these themes.
The contained item is part of the containing items such as an engine in a car composition.
So for has a relationship you have some sub things we know the difference between composition and aggregation
that can also be identified in the UML diagram.
The difference whether it's composition or whether it's an aggregation relationship and we know what
those are
so those are the types of things that you'll see in a class time.
Graham wrote quickly now I want to show you some example.